Important parameters in the design of an artificial neural network are considered:
Tick ​​and INCORRECT alternative.
Number of layers
membership function TRUE 
Number of neurons
network topology
Data representation

In relation to artificial neural networks, it can be stated that

I- Recurrent networks - networks with neurons that compete for the right to produce the output are called

II- Competitive networks - have dynamic neurons

III- Supervised learning networks - weight adjustment is made at each input/output pattern to produce the desired output

Tick ​​the CORRECT alternative

Only alternative I is correct.
Only alternative III is correct.  TRUE 
Only alternative II is correct.
Only alternatives II and III are correct.
Only alternatives I and III are correct.

Neural networks have architectures based on building blocks similar to each other and that perform the processing in parallel. In relation to neural networks:

I - In unsupervised learning, examples of inputs and their respective outputs are used in training the neural network.
II - Learning rules are schemes for updating the synapse weight values ​​of a genetic algorithm.
III - Training is the way in which the neural computational system learns about the information it will need in order to solve certain problems.

It is correct to say that:
I and III are true
i is true
I and II are true
III true   TRUE 
II is true

The knowledge learned by an artificial neural network is stored:
wrong in neurons
In the inner layers
On the output layer
In the input layer
Wrong in the weights of the network connections  TRUE 

Artificial Neural Networks are computational techniques that present a mathematical model inspired by the neural structure of intelligent organisms, so it can be said that a connectionist model: (Choose the CORRECT alternative):
They deal with non-symbolically represented knowledge and process information in a parallel and distributed way.  TRUE 
They employ a parallel and structured search strategy based on the mechanisms of natural selection.
They perform approximate reasoning, with imprecise propositions and described in natural language.
They deal with explicit knowledge, symbolically represented and generalize learned knowledge.
They are inspired by the behavior of the human brain and model the imprecise modes of approximate reasoning.

Regarding the connectionist model, we can say that:
Has part of the knowledge needed to solve the problem.
Each problem requires the designer to make adequate choices to enable the correct evolution of solutions over successive generations.
Each problem does not necessarily require the designer to make adequate choices to enable the correct evolution of solutions over successive generations.
It has no stored knowledge until it is trained to solve a problem. TRUE
Have all the knowledge needed to solve the problem.
