In Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLP) networks with the Backpropagation algorithm, why is such training called supervised training?
a weight supervision algorithm is used during training
inputs and outputs are scrambled by the supervisor before training
the entire process must be supervised by an expert.
the desired outputs are provided and used to correct the weights   TRUE 
responses are reviewed using the validation set.

Regarding the data set used by a supervised learning artificial neural network, analyze the following statements:

I - The updating of the neuron weights occurs in both the training and validation sets.

II - The training set must be presented to the network several times, that is, at different times.

III - The validation set is used to test the generalizability of the network, that is, if it has learned patterns by testing data not present in the training set.

Check the correct alternative:

Only statement III is correct.
Only statement I is correct.
Statements I and II are correct
Statements II and III are correct   TRUE 
Only statement II is correct.

Consider the network with McCulloch-Pitts neurons below, in which each neuron has the threshold q = 0. For the input value pairs (xA and xB) of (0.0), (0.1), (1, 0) and (1,1), what would be the respective output values ​​of neuron z3?

 

 

(0,1,0,1)
(1,1,1.0)
(1,0,0,1)
(0.1,1.0)   true 
(0.0,0.1)

In Multilayer Perceptrons (MLP) networks with the Backpropagation algorithm, what is the main function of the moment term applied to the weight adjustment formula?
To accelerate convergence using a multiplier factor arbitrated by the algorithm
To explore multiple minimum points of the function
To stop the convergence to the minimum value of the error function, since a slower descent prevents going beyond the desired point
To curb convergence, inhibiting the attraction of local minimums and allowing convergence to the global minimum
To accelerate convergence using the correction trend from the previous cycle  TRUE 

In Multi-Layer Perceptron-type networks (MLP) with the Backpropagation algorithm, what can entail for the quality of the trained network, training beyond the desired point?
I - The network begins to confuse input patterns
II - The network becomes better and more generic, but there is a large computational cost
III - Decrease in the generalization capacity of the network

According to the approach, check the CORRECT option:
Only item III is correct.   TRUE 
Only item I is correct.
Only item II is correct.
Only items I and III are correct.
Only items I and II are correct.

The Backpropagation training algorithm consists of a sequence of phases.
Check the INCORRECT alternative on this algorithm.
Calculate the error in the output of the network, which is equivalent to a difference between the output value obtained from the network and the desired output value.
Present a pattern on the input layer and calculate its weight value on the output layer.  TRUE
If a desired maximum error has not been reached, return to the initial step for the next iteration (show all patterns again).
Modify the synaptic connection weights in order to minimize the average error, considering all sample standards.
Back-propagate the error in the network by calculating how changes in weights affect the error.

Analyze the following statements about neural networks without directed cycles, where n is the number of neurons and m the number of connections.
I. Once trained, the use of the network consists of applying an input and waiting until convergence occurs for the output to be obtained.
II. The training process consists of obtaining a vector in at least m -dimensional space. This vector is obtained through an optimization process that seeks to minimize the error on the training instances.
III. The training process consists of obtaining a vector in at least m -dimensional space. This vector is obtained through an optimization process that seeks to minimize the generalization error.
The analysis allows us to conclude that:

Choose the correct alternative

Only statements II and III are correct.
Only statement II is correct.   TRUE 
Only statements I and II are correct.
All statements are correct.
Only statement III is correct.

Consider the network with McCulloch-Pitts neurons below, in which each neuron has the threshold q = 0. For the input value pairs (x1 and x2) of (0.0), (0.1), (1, 0) and (1,1), what would be the respective output values ​​of neuron z3?



(1,0,0,1)
(0.1,1.0)
(0.0,0.1)
(0,1,0,1)
(0.1,1.1)
